First of all what is encryption.
Encryption is when we start off with something in clear takes mean that's something that we as humans
can read.
For example text in the document are something that we have entered on a forum on the web page and then
we want to encrypted so that it is only us and the receiver that is capable of reading this message.
Because if we didn't encrypted then anywhere anybody else could basically read this and we don't want
it especially for sensitive and private information such as password or bank details or personal information
lag insurers no reason and stuff like that.
So encryption is basically all around around taking something from clear text and me into a sever text
so encryption and decryption all comes down to mathematical algorithms where mathematicians has been
spending years on developing these algorithms because we need to know that these are secure.
So we need to have a lot of mathematicians trying to break the code of this algorithm in order for us
to know that well this is basically very secure.
So what is changing in encryption is normally the key or the passphrase meaning the Secret which we
talked about in lecture 11.
Whereas the algorithm stays the same.
So the algorithm that you are using to encrypt and decrypt are probably also used by a lot of other
people in the world especially when it comes to networking because the algorithm on its own is secure
but it is the key and the passphrase that make us encrypt and decode and ensure that it is only us who
can do this decrypting.
So a little example of how encryption works.
Take for example this clear text we have right here we have Vince love.
Then we take this clear text which is our data.
Then we take our algorithm.
This is a very basic algorithm so we simply just say plus K mean that we will take each letter.
And plus it would K meaning a number.
So our number in this case is 1.
So this one plus K is known to the entire world.
So everybody knows this algorithm plus key.
It is a very basic one so you should never use it but everyone knows this algorithm the secret that
nobody should know is what the number is.
Because if they have the same number they can actually decrypt the message again because then they know
how we encrypted so we'll be encrypting this using the Plus key algorithm and they're using our secret
number is 1.
So we take each letter and incremented by 1 meaning that we get this ciphertext right here.
So this is encrypted text you can read the letters but they mean nothing to you.
And you can get the original message out of this garbage.
So we have now encrypted this critics right here using our little algorithm and a secret phrase which
is our number one in real algorithms as we will see and Little League has is much more complex and is
much more secure meaning that you just can't break them by just trying.
OK.
Has he incremented with one.
No.
2 No.
It is much more advanced than that.
But this stands as a good example to understand how this works.
So what you need to keep in mind when encrypting is that we have some data.
We have a given encryption algorithm.
And then we have a secret key or passphrase that we use.